Uh! A-O-T-P in this nigga!
We don't rumble no more!
I will take it back and disrespect a nigga sliding 'fore I pull that ratchet out!
I'm going in! Uh!

Why you runnin' with those lames that's tapped out
A-O-T-P is front line with they MACs out
And we don't rumble no more, we coming for war
I can hit from a long range, don't care if you draw
And uh, your eyes can't hit what they can't see
The M1, will melt a nigga wig like gangrene
And my trees is laced, bucket is half licked
My whole team got laced, half of them rich
The other half, originate from the best part
My right hook'll leave your face covered with stretch-marks
When the swelling go down, I'm telling you clowns
My next step is fillin' up your melon with rounds
And uh, this is warfare, niggas in war gear
The A-O-T-P whole roster is all here
So fall back if you thinkin' of beefin' dog
I had my nigga Reef tie your moms to a tree with barbs

The heavy metal king hold big shit I cock the heaters
Fat, bald, Puerto Ricans, and the pasta eaters
Every move I make righteous, God Allah can see us
Peace to Abraham, Ishmael, Jacob, Jesus
Peace to every man, woman, and child
To Muhammad and his glorious muezzin Bilal
You a swine eater, that means all your energy foul
I'm a divine leader, that means all my enemies bow
Yeah, but I ain't worried 'bout my enemies now
Even though at times my team can be incredibly wild
Don't attempt to ever get me to smile
Unless you wanna see what bullets do to heads of a child (Yeah!)

Behold a Pale Horse, y'all niggas is runnin' the frail course (Get up!)
Ain't nothing better than smellin' the stale corpse
Depicted through your skeleton, wear elegant gloves
Purple blood on the fingers we locked from Hell and above
(The shell from a slug) Turn grizzly bears into cubs
I make the birds fly south when we get it crunk in the clubs
(It's nothin' to us!) We bustin' militant verses
Belligerent syndicate, we spit the gift and the curses
You niggas worthless, I seen you in your cypher with your backpack
I'm way past that, may God strike ya!
You sounded like you was readin', you was off-beat even
So you left with your jaw leakin', I punished 'em all speakin'
We all beefin', niggas is runnin' rampant
I curve verbs, the type that can serve Sampras
Y'all all infantile niggas in Pampers
There's no cure to my sickness, I'm rap's cancer

Let's get it crackin', what happened to all of y'all?
These QD stars got the people screaming for encore
We love raw, direct, uncut raw
And ya little particles, we bound to dust and mop
Rap shit is my rope and I ain't givin' it slack
Main question in the air, "Man, who bringin' it back?"
Gotta' be us, honestly "In God We Trust"
Apply pressure to the point and it will probably bust
Don't ever strike me, rolling with Crypt, that's more than likely
My daily operation for the cash on the nightly
We all icy, hustle just for the grams
And breakin' bread with the Pharaohs, man that's part of the plan (It go, it go, it go, it go, Demoz!)

Food off your plate I scrape, I will never cater
Demoz tryin' to come up, like a elevator
Green money, make paper, like I own a forest
He's funny, rap name should be Martin Lawrence
Never hated, I ain't tryna say I never made it
Man, my confidence is high like it's medicated
Call me a loose charm, I'm off the chain
I'm off the wall like in memory of my name
Versatile with the flow, they all the same
Ghetto can't walk right, I borrow the cane
Raincoat, umbrella, stop all your rain
The industry a buffet, I eat all I can
So fuck if you next and fuck a duet (Let's go!)
You niggas don't want to play me like Russian Roulette (Nope!)
Man you DVD rappers sound uncomfortable, bet (Why?)
This not a exercise tape, why you bustin' a sweat nigga? (Why, nigga?)