Badass nigga gettin' down on his knees
Crown on his head, shoes on his feet
Niggas wanna know, hoes tryna creep
Throw it in the hall, yell it in the street
I'm workin', I'm workin'
I'm workin', I'm workin'

Johnny got up out that minor league
Went St. Lunatic perfect time indeed
Me and my niggas want the pay out
Buy my baby boo a house to lay out
Make way for the new champion
8th grade, knew the world would chant for him
Now I'm A-grade, and I look in the mirror and say, "Candyman"
Tell 'em I'm a handyman
Nigga ain't fearin' any man
Do it, movin' for that Nike check
Watch me prove it something like a vet
Coming live, straight from Carpet Hill
Where Jezebel and Jasmine try to cop a feel
But tell them hoes I don't want it
Show me my opponent
I'm twilight and I'm zonin'
Oxtail and that chicken
It's my season, I'm jerkin'
All my life, I had to fight
Niggas been lurkin'
But I'm workin'

Badass nigga gettin' down on his knees
Crown on his head, shoes on his feet
Niggas wanna know, hoes tryna creep
Throw it in the hall, yell it in the street
I'm workin', I'm workin'
I'm workin', I'm workin'

Uh, nothing but my reflection
Nothing but my confessions
Homebound for a while, better start the addressin'
Like fuck it, let's get connected
The stress is an understatement
Finessin' my way through greatness
I dare you to take it from me
Bounce around on that stage, boy
They got you now, what you sayin', boy?
You do 'em now, you gon' play it, boy
Tell you this, you no game, boy
For the love, for the money, for the fame
See, my story just another like my brothers
I been hunting, I been searching
I be puffing, I'm allergic to the bull
No more shooting in the function
That's just something we won't do
Your assumptions get you killed
Tell me something that you feel
With some give and go together
No division over here, OT (know me well)
Living lowkey (know me well)
And I OD (know me well)
Listen closely, hold me down
And I don't need (no detail)
When them hundreds (hold it down)
And I wasn't wasn't

Badass nigga gettin' down on his knees
(You got to be patient for me)
Crown on his head, shoes on his feet
Niggas wanna know, hoes tryna creep
(Make me believe that you care for me)
Throw it in the hall, yell it in the street
I'm workin', I'm workin'
(You care for me, yoooooou)
I'm workin', I'm workin'

Guy 1: And the bitch gon tell me she wanna see my paystubs
Talking about I'm always coming home from work late
She don't believe I'm putting in overtime in this motherfucking station
I'm telling you. I'm tired of this shit dawg. I'm tired of it. What am I supposed to do?
Guy 2: Man, I feel you. I ain't never did no overtime, but one time I had go over to Kim's house
Guy 1: Oh, with the big ole...
Guy 2: and I said I was havingovertime
Guy 2: Oh right right right. ni--
Guy 1: Oh we're on? Jimmy, tell me