Ohhh shit, it's Funkatron! Not Funkatron!
His wordplay is crazy, his lyricism is brainy, and his delivery sounds like he's all drunk and wrong!
When I first heard I had to battle Funkatron, I'll admit I was a little bit nervous
But then I realized I was doing this dude a pretty big service
Cause maybe after Funk fucks up this battle, he'll be able to focus on what really matters - making good music to make up for this injustice
Hahahaheeheehoohoo
Nah but real talk
You been rapping for how long now..2 years?
I only been rapping a little more than 2 months
You dropped 20 songs and 2 EPs and I only dropped one
But my single single got almost ten times the plays than all your music combined Come on son
And in only 2 minutes, we'll all witness how your tourney run will end quicker than my Ramen being done
Man... you amaze me...
As to how grand your ego is... Saying shit like...
"But before you lurked in my shadows you were still just a shadow of me
And my shadow only grows, how's that for foreshadowing?"
Homie that's not clever!
Hell, I'm half your age and I can do that shit dude!
Tell you what, just to make you feel good
I'll even go along with your "fancy" wordplay "battle bars" too
Cause sometimes you gotta play the role of a fool
To fool the fool who thinks they fooling you
And you a fool to think if I'mma fall off track too
Cause I ain't joking around or fucking lying to you
And I know you ain't got shit to say on me!
Anything you spit is fucking wrong
Drop outta this battle like you dropped outta school, Flunk-a-thon
Ha...that was a little cheesy, I'm not gonna lie
But that just shows how focused I am on this rap game and making that cheddar
Unlike you, my guy...spending the remainder of your life battling minors on an Internet site

Go on sho-nuff, mock my forum pressence
But it's been set in stone, all other aspects im impressive
And when the 11th hour comes, and goes just how expected
Well, You've heard Remo shout for Miles, but it's Icy when hes bested
You were so explicit callin out miles and missin
But everyone one be like, "hes the lesser of two bitches"
Fuck the fancy word play, let give it to you straight
From shade to hidden battles, that shit is bitch made
The way you bite, bitch, quit, come back and switch names
Ok, i snuck some digs in
"I suck" "I attempt to make music"
"Im done with the league"
Can you guess what who I'm doin?
Real talk, its hard to keep bruisin em, when his own words and reputation already started to ruin 'em
This chump gets less tender, every time the bonds get tested
I didn't know such a poor sport, would  be so deeply invested
A brief side note, to hoes deletin past battles
We can still read comments where you act like an asshole
But it's ok Remo, i know you don't mean it
I know you're always scared, but g, easy on the screamin
This time take a shit, before your takin the piss
I can hear it in every word, none of your words mean Dick
I listened to your beats, you asked why we didn't cop?
My nephew played me better shit, after a minute in bleep!box
The 11th hour has come! Lady Venom gets her mention!
Cuz he could never bleed more then when they met up on their menses!
Honestly?
I dont wanna be the reason you leavin
I wanna be the reason you die, when you read, you can't breathe, shit
I wanna hear atonement, tones of razor blade voilin
I wanna hear admission, that you voilently played yer' wrist/playgerist