Yeah, I'm doing chin-ups on the bars you set
I feel like I'm the only one
I feel like no one saw it coming, not a single one
I hear you taking shots, pulling up a paper gun
These days, no one real, not a single one
Heart racing, on the run, killer beat, let her run
Yeah, they thought I would be done
Now they say I'm the one, but they keep it hundred
I school kids 101
I spend money on a chain, what you get it for?
Money hangs you by the neck, I bought into the metaphor
One in the morning, I'm like I gotta work a little more
Working in the bay so they can play me up in Ecuador
Small circle, but I know they all got me
Capture the moment, yeah, I swear to you I'm savvy
Why does everybody want to tell you, "Get a plan B"?
Don't lose your soul just to make them all happy
You gotta get up if you wanna see the sunrise
Why you living like you got more than one life?
Imma run the game, never cared about a shoe size
Tell me how to live when you're perfect in your own life

'Cause nobody's out here to save you
Don't let the world going change you

I wonder where my heart is if I'm never starving
Will I ever change? God, please keep me guarded
If you want to make it, then you gotta make it work
If only you can see the pain living in my work
If you felt the mind state that I'm living in
Moved eight times, living room's what I'm living in
Never said a thing, I'm just happy for the roof
Freestyles out the school like, yo, we got the juice
Now I hardly see you, man, far from the truth
Haven't seen you in a year, but you choose what you choose, right
No matter where you find yourself, I wish you the best
But can you find happiness if no one's left?
When you risk everything, what is really left?
It tears me apart, that we’re so far apart
I want to hit you up but I don't know where to start
Finding the words like throwing darts in the dark
I guess growing pains when you're growing apart, huh

You gotta get up if you want to see the sunrise
Why you living like you got more than one life?
Imma run the game, never cared about a shoe size
Tell me how to live when you're perfect in your own life

'Cause nobody's out here to save you
Don't let the world going change you
'Cause nobody's out here to save you

Stars can fall too, yeah, we see it all the time
Don't lose your soul for the Hollywood sign
I'm scared of what I'm thinking
Man, I can't really tell
Like, am I writing for the people or am I talking to myself?
Lost close friends that I thought I'd never lose
You gave me the confidence so now I'm confused
Did I do something different? Am I somebody new?
When you're willing to win, you gotta be willing to lose
So Imma chase dreams while you're chasing a drink
Life has got me messed up, man, I don't wanna think
My soul is on the edge and my heart's on the brink
Success is an ocean and I don't want to sink
Look at the price to be one of a kind
You don't care who you lose, but yet you're looking behind
You don't know what you want until you're all out of time
You won't find your soul in those Hollywood signs

'Cause nobody's out here to save you
Don't let the world going change you