The most toxic, dough overflows the pockets
With ho's so exotic, it blows your optics
I'm flashy, Egyptian kings couldn't surpass me
Chameleon Nikes that change color to match me
I used to date a Gangsta Bitch like Apache
But that dumb ho pronounced my name A-pathy
And ever since William Cooper been deceased
Police watch every AOTP release
And they tap when we speak, when we rap over beats
When we crap, when we eat, or relax with a freak
I’m a emperor, who stay with a crown and some jewelry
Ride around when we dirty to The Sound and the Fury
You're unworthy, to walk this ground or observe me
Backpackers pack bags leave town in a hurry
The AOTP, we just similar sinners
A sinister circle of serpents eatin' virgins for dinner
Emergin' as winners from summer to winter the sons of the ministers
Burnin' down churches and chokin' Jehova's witnesses
Known for they viciousness, the ignorance kings
Who hang ho's from the ceiling by their clitoris rings
Manchurian Candidate who's brain went AWOL
Walkin' through hurricane rainfall with a chainsaw
Dr. Claw- droppin' y'all, only see my hand bitch
Catch you in the subway and serve you a knuckle sandwich
Vinnie, that's my brother that motherfucker helped me
My first appearance ever was a Jedi Mind LP
So 'til our blood is absorbed in morgue floor boards
We'll live by the sword, and die by the sword

(It's the bul Planetary, uh)
Let me explain the rain that is intended
To drown the universe and drain the heads selected
I'm like a pet detective, watchin' your dogs
I'm dodgin' the law, cops saw me plot in the fog
So I scooped Vinnie Paz, nigga hop in the car
I'm rockin' Pac, Big Pop, D-Block and Raw
Somebody got to die, if I go you gots to go
But I'm a die with a hot flow, Timbs with my socks low
My death wish is to die on the Soul Plane
Next to Chuck D., Coltrane and Cobain
I never sniffed a fuckin' line of cocaine
I'm R.A.W., youngins don't know Kane
You just a lyin' coward, I'm rap's Ryan Howard
Swingin' bats for the raps for ten violent hours
Paz dial the numbers, I supply 'em with thunder
It's the fourth quarter, bye to the summer (hahahaha...)

Yeah!
Planet, what up baby?
Apathy, what up cousin?
AOTP in the buildin'
What up Reef? What up 'Mach?
7l, Eso', King Syze
All of y'all it's love baby
Yeah!

Yo I'm God incarnate, from the grimiest back blocks
Pazienza lyrical equivalent of Sasquatch
Low shit, baggy Nautica with the gat cocked
You ho shit, tight jeans, pink with the tank top
You make the kind of rap music that fags watch
I make the kind of rap music that stab cops
I brought it raw, I been here ever since
I remember you the faggot wearin' gear like you prince
The type of faggot shed a tear when you pinched
I'm the type to disappear but reappear in the clinch
I'm here in the clinch, you know I'm always here for my fam
The type that fuck somebody up and drink a beer with my fam
BRAT! BRAT! (Hahahahahahaha)

Yea! It's Pazman, Louie Dogs
Apathy (Hahahaha)
Yeah, what up Plan, baby?
(Fuckin' clowns) what's good?
(Jedi Mind in the buildin') AOTP
(Yo Stoupe) Celph, what up daddy?
Stoupe my brother
We runnin' this rap shit
We runnin' this rap shit
(Yeah, we runnin' it)
Jedi Mind, we runnin' this rap shit
(Yeah, we runnin' that shit)
The God Jus Allah!
(What up God?)
It feels so good to be back baby!
(Haha, Feels so good!)
(Haha...)