Fashion in the Nation’s Capital Washington D.C.?  The film, “The Politics of Fashion: DC Unboxed,” premiered June 3 to answer that very question and the answer is a yes!
Verified Genius Media Group Artist, Songwriter & Producer Terri J. Stott attended the film premiere at the luxurious Mazza Gallerie along with the who’s who in DC Fashion.   Terri J. recently joined the Genius Media Group site to share her music and lyrics with the site’s fans.  She has been able to successfully integrate a music career that includes her other passion and that is fashion.  An award-winning songwriter/producer from the Washington D.C. region, “Her moody and passionate soul music has garnered worldwide radio airplay in over 22 countries, and her songs have been licensed by luxury hotel and high-end fashion retail stores such as the five-star Baglioni Hotels, Hogan and Ermenegilda Zegna.
Already a rising-star in the European music market, Terri is focusing her talents domestically recently releasing her songs in digital stores to phenomenal success with her music making the Amazon Best Sellers and Hottest R&B/ releases in 3 countries and making the iTunes Hot 100 Hottest New R&B releases in over 30 countries.  Terri J.’s songs have contemporary twists, but stay true to the traditions loyal fans love. Terri J. writes from the heart and writes to inspire others. Luxury lifestyle brands and fans alike are attracted to the smooth, moody, passionate and atmospheric tunes Terri J. creates.
While her music and love of fashion has a global reach, Terri J. has been a part of the local fashion scene.  Terri J. was a sponsor for the Paul Wharton Style TV Show on the CW Network, and was excited to support the premiere of a documentary all about fashion right in her own back yard.

“The Politics of Fashion: DC Unboxed” is from writer and director Elaine Mensah, who worked at Deloitte as a management consultant for six years while writing about fashion and owns Svelte LLC.  Some of the film’s stars included Andre Wells, Owner and Producer for Events by Andre Wells; Pulitzer-Prize winning fashion critic Robin Givhan; founder of T.H.E. Artist Agency Lynda Erkiletian;  Maggy Francois, Fashion Design Director at West Potomac Academy; Karen Sommer Shalett; former editor-in-chief of D.C. Modern Luxury Magazine; Kate Glassman Bennett; editor-in-chief of Washingtonian Bride & Groom; Afua Sam, designer based in the Washington DC area and others.
“The Politics of Fashion: DC Unboxed” was a two year journey for Mensah culminating in the film’s premiere earlier this month.  The premiere was such a success, hosting a sold out crowd, there will be another event on June 17, 2014.
Details and tickets can be found on the website, http://thepoliticsoffashion.com.  You can get more info on Terri on her artist page, http://rock.rapgenius.com/TerriJStott