Sitting in the park with a walkman on nodding my neck hard And pardon me I didn't see you there. Thank god for the gift of midriff driftin by, Catch a whiff and get high, on a spliff, yes I… I'm talking better than dope and I really like dope And so it must be good, could it get any better? Shoulda set the sun off with a nice cool breeze, To ease the sweet smell of sweat run off, so please come off. You feel me like a breeze blowing, sitting under trees writing, Liking looking out at the seas and fallen leaves, And breathing in the change of season, I don't even need a reason To be boozing when I'm cruising, as long as shit is pleasing. I love seeing the sun coming into my cave, And still crave the haze and find so many ways to misbehave. See the josh did done that, and still caught the sunset Drunk as fuck screaming “are we having fun yet?” See the josh did done that, And still caught the sunset, Drunk as fuck screaming “Are we having fun yet?” Chorus: Another Day, Another Dollar Wanna Play? Give me a holler. Let's get faded on the bottle And forget about tomorrow Let's create a song of sorrow How we always need to borrow Loot to get loose, Who gives a fuck about tomorrow? Verse 2: Look out on the water and watch the sun setting You can smell the rum and coke and you can see that some forgetting, Come the summer ends in smoke soaking up all them rays It'll end in autumn leaves, smoking trees on rainy days. The greens of today are the browns of tomorrow And yesterday's sorrow is the legacy we follow In the yesteryears, the X amount of beers we quenched our fears with, Were forgotten like so many friends we went and spilled our tears with. To me the seas are calling, see I've fallen into love With ska, dub and the dope dancehall. It seized me by the collar and it hollered you've been mollycoddled long enough. Are you man enough? Are you strong enough? The world is yours but your divorced from it. So close to the top and you haven't seen the summit. Been talking and dreaming for so long and ain't done it. When the prey becomes the predator, the dream becomes the hunted. Chorus: Another Day, Another Dollar Wanna Play? Give me a holler. Let's get faded on the bottle And forget about tomorrow Let's create a song of sorrow How we always need to borrow Loot to get loose, Who gives a fuck about tomorrow? Verse 3 Man I'm missing sitting kissing, talking shit, and pissing wine. Getting sunk feeling, remember reeling drunk and drooling time ON life I'm buzzing nicely, maybe it might be caused By laws that aren't likely to have teeth, let alone jaws Each and every leech that has a cause is always preaching A one-sided thesis that comes from flawed teaching. Smoking pot to pass the time, what a crock I'm past my prime. But where's the clock that's telling time, when I'm the rock that time forgot. Not ready to go steady, not into the petty. The pity parties and confetti…I been there already. I can be your man if you'd only understand That I can't be held down by nothing just yet. I don't care about the money, shit, I wanna live right too. But one plus one equals none left for me to like you. If you want it, you got it, you break it you bought it. You thought it would be cool to play the fool, you've been spotted. If you want it, you got it, You break it you bought it. You thought it would be cool Play the fool, you've been spotted. Chorus: Another Day, Another Dollar Wanna Play? Give me a holler. Let's get faded on the bottle And forget about tomorrow Let's create a song of sorrow How we always need to borrow Loot to get loose, Who gives a fuck about tomorrow?