"It is said that once an entire army marched against him, a real army."

One-two, one-two
Pharaoh shit, nigga!

Yo, I live life according to The Low End Theory
A champion, the trophy goes to me, clearly
Most of these niggas fear me, seriously
I'm a step above God, my apostles cheer me
Tap if you hear the Desert Eagle spittin'
With a Buhloone Mindstate I start Ego Trippin'
Back in the lab, I'm the mad scientist
Keep your eye on this, when I roar I'm lion-esque (yes!)
Untamed, my style is mundane, consumed from the moon
Until the sun done changed
Done done, I done came, conquered my insanity
The man in me evolves through my vanity
All black tee, Philly fitted with a black P
Niggas ain't ready for war to blast me (B!)
Ask me if I give two shits
If you ain't Pharaohs, QD, my kids, or my bitch

E.S. I made the track rap your dome
We uncanny like David and Manny, you chasin' balls
Out in left, while I'm circlin' third and being waved home
Murderin' herbs, reveal words to your nose bone
I'm Larry Holmes with a left and a right
I'm Roy Jones winnin' fights on consecutive nights
I'm Luke Sky with the blast shield down, cats kneel down
This is boom-bap, real rap, steel sounds
I watch NESN at seven, I watch the news at eleven
To look for MC's I lyrically murdered
And the bodies that I deserted, they probably didn't deserve it
But I had to do it to them, I gotta pride of lions
That love wack rapper meat, so I throw it to 'em
The Mighty Thor with the mind of Michael Moore
This type of war ends games like the final score

"It's as if the Pharaohs have returned."

Yeah! Celph Titled!

I can't see y'all from where I'm at
I like the smell of napalm in the mornin', while I'm eatin' my Apple Jacks
My battle axe acts as a last resort death kill
Quarantine your city, it's about to be a lead spill
Faggots better (Fall back!) Said I ain't got (Raw raps!)
Fuck made you (Doubt that!) Fuck boy (I'm all that!)
Arrows with explosive tips
I'm about to get real ill on some ill, good old Coka Nostra shit
That's gritty and gangster, Vinnie, pass me a banger
I'll abort you little sports with a rusty hanger
Parker Brothers say my name, y'all start to stutter
Slicin' pussies, I'm a certified carpet cutter
Handgun (automatic!) Shotgun (pump-action!)
Me with your wife, that's (automatic pump-action!)
Laundromat thug passion, we wash bundles there
Keep a gun tucked in the motherfuckin' Snuggles bear