We’re from the Parent-Teacher Association
We just need to get your small monthly donation
‘Cause of cuts in funding, they’re cutting our classes
We’re dumping art and music teachers out on their asses
I thought this nation cared about education
Have things changed, or was I just mistaken?
Can it really be standard operating procedure
To have 35 kids in a class, with one teacher
?
Can you believe my pee-wee gets no P.E
And has no one to teach him his do, re, mi's?
Kids packed in the class just like sardines
That’s what it’s like living with Prop 13
I’ve been carpooling all week, I’m barely alive
I got restless leg syndrome so I’m sleep deprived!
I’m coming here with my kids and a few of their friends
You want me to control them? – Ha! That depends
The wheels on the bus go round and round
The PTA’s gonna shake you down
I’ll step through your door, step in your store
Whoops, did my kid knock some stuff on the floor?
The wheels on the bus go round and round
The PTA’s gonna shake you down
Our budget's been cut, school's hitting the skids
We're coming for you, and we're bringing our kids
Look, I don’t mean to get scary
Raising money and kids, it gets us very
Stressed out. No doubt needed some new tactics
Cause it’s too late to put on the prophylactics
You can’t afford to buy us pencil sharpeners?
Say hello to my Kindergartners
Hate to see what kind of damage they can do
With an ice cream cone while I’m on my cell phone
See, my kids got a short attention span
He’s got all the manners of the Taliban
I’d hate to see your place look like Afghanistan
Or even worse: the back seat of my mini-van
Getting the loot is what we’re all about
Don’t donate, I’ll put your store in time out
Good teachers don’t work for free
So that’s one… That’s two…
The wheels on the bus go round and round
The PTA’s gonna shake you down
We are poor, tired, and angry
And we’re not just here to sell you candy
The wheels on the bus go round and round
The PTA’s gonna shake you down
Our budget's been cut, school's hitting the skids
We're coming for you, and we're bringing our kids
We’re the PTA from the school of hard knocks
So don’t go acting like your place is Fort Knox
You gotta make a decision, you gonna sign our subscription?
Or be looking down the barrel of my juice box?
Our sons and daughters act like puppies with rabies
If you’re not scared of our toddlers, then we'll bring in our babies
They gutted the budget. Arts & music -- they cut it
Raise hell? I’m not above it. In fact, I’m learning to love it
Your store just might be in danger
From my little Power Ranger
You gotta understand I don’t say this in anger
But with a kid in your store and one in the chamber
I’m afraid you leave me with no choice
But to bring out my Mom voice
Sign on the line, make a donation
Or I’ll bring ‘em here every day of summer vacation
The wheels on the bus go round and round
The PTA’s gonna shake you down
You’d better pay up and get down on your knees
Or we’ll treat this place like Chuck E. Cheese
The wheels on the bus go round and round
The PTA’s gonna shake you down
Our budget's been cut, school's hitting the skids
We're coming for you, and we're bringing our kids