(Intro)
He lives in a world where wearing your heart on your sleeve is not the norm, and speaking of your private pain can lose you credibility. And frankly he doesn't give a shit about that. He's more concerned about healing. He's more concerned about helping others to heal
Hook
They may not know my name, but I'ma make sure they know my pain
And ain't shit change but the thoughts in my brain
Elevated like a plane, all these words I make it rain
Spittin bars like wayne, with the truth I came too far to be slain
Too rare to be plain, too dope to refrain from annihilating lames
No cosign but I’m Winnin Charlie Sheen
What’s a dream if you flip it like a brick into reality
Tryna make power moves never tellin fallacies
Always at war with the demons that I’m battling
But it’s all good Hoping that I’m rattling ya thoughts
We can talk we can roll we can walk
Make em know that we on put my soul in my heart
In this Music, Man this shit is therapeutic
And I’m hoping that the world understand my
Verse 1
Back at it with some hat tricks, No black magic
Tryna make this rap shit worth it serving all my haters got em nervous
We deserve this, spittin knowledge with a purpose
Curving all this negativity around me
I'm free my dream to make a better world WE
Owe it to our people, we were all made equal
All this evil is a prequel to this novel
Hostile I don't wanna live this way
Tryna pave a road call it freedom Lane
Tryna make a change we don’t need to stay
Content with mistreatment Polices Killing my people
I’m screaming No justice No peace so bring
A friend or two don’t watch the news we can live truly well if
We all live by the golden rule. If we living by this golden rule
We could make a better world take advantage of our tools
Open up a new school, Show em that it
Ain’t nothing but the poetry in motion
We the potion I’m devoting my creations to this notion
Of creation, evolution We’re producing a vast world of lucid
And fluid dreams of cruising to a better place we moving we moving
To the future Time traveling Steady climbing we grappling
Yeah we holding on tight for the fight of our life
And Tryna show the world that we been living through the strife
And even tho the pain we feel won’t leave overnight
One day we all goin be alright….yeah
Hook

Verse 2
We'll learn to let go of our fears in time
We'll find a way to be bold and clearly defined
We'll find a place that will help us redefine
What we see what we feel but it's alright
So many things to see so many memories
That bring emotions like the ocean very deep but hold the key to freedom
Freedom, A privilege gained to fearless passion
Fuel to create action
Fuel to create massive shifts in the world we imagined
High tide that ravaged a community entirely
Built together by the people that live together
By the people who continued to brave the weather
By the people that created
By the people that'll stay right here forever
And I'm blessed I got a family supporting me
And a group of dope friends that I live to see
Another beautiful day with fresh air to breathe
I'm a different kind of dude I'm another new breed
So rare purebred peep my family tree
Hotter than the sun baby i'm the essence of wasabi
And honestly it's hard to be somebody else
Cuz I'm entirely complete with all my homies
Vibing and Riding because we all some young kings
And queens, yeah I know we got some dreams
That we wanna achieve, and we wanna be free
So Work hard open up your mind and you'll see
And Good intentions only go so far
So you gotta be prepared ready from the start
Because the world we living in is made of art
Lemme add to the beauty help me do my part
"I always tell people I'm a human being, first before anything, you know you're born naked and you go out in a nice suit. Ya know, and everything that happens between is just madness, and we'll figure it out on the way. You gotta make your own way. It just kind of makes it a little bit, you know, you savory it a little bit more and it means more. And I might have needed to hear that that day. I've learned to appreciate it
Hook x2
Awakening. Wake Up! x7
Interviewer: Thank you for joining us this morning!
A1C: Jeffries: Thank you for having me
Interviewer:Now where are you from?
A1C: Jeffries: Uh Painesville Ohio
Interviewer: Okay, uh what kind of place is that?
A1C: Jeffries: It's a small retirement town there's not much to do for kids like coming out of high school so that's why a lot of them are in trouble
Interviewer: Oh! Gotcha. Now what was your motivation?
A1C: Jeffries: To make a difference; to make a difference in this world before I go I want to touch like so many lives, there's like, the one thing that I feel will bring the most accomplishment to me is if I make someone change, well not necessarily change, but get someone motivated, someone who doesn't even know me, and I don't know them, but I touch them