3AM, Malibu
Can't sleep, bed emoji
Kathy Griffin just left; that bitch got me all wired up, sticking out tongue and winking emoji
50 years in the biz, can't stop thinking about when it all began, thought bubble emoji

Born in Cali and mama named me Cherilyn
I was insecure, but there was a fire within
Skipped school early and went to Hollywood
Tried to meet every big wig that I could
When I met Sonny he was twenty seven
I was younger by a few years... okay, eleven
Short little guy, he stole my heart
Soon we were on top of the charts
(Sang songs) We were writing the hits
It was all glamour and glitz
(Sang songs) We were two shooting stars
And we had each other, babe
Sonny believed in me more than I believed in myself
And bitch, we were just getting started

From television city in Hollywood:
The Sonny and Cher Show!

Me and Sonny were the hottest show in town, they loved us
And every monday night the fans stuck around, to see my Mackie gowns
My daddy's people were Armenian
And I would dress up like an Indian
I wore a head dress, be a gypsy queen
A fortune teller witch from New Orleans
(Cultural appropriation!) That's what we've never heard
(Cultural appropriation!) That wasn't even a word
(Cultural appropriation!) C'mon, it was another time
We just called it fashion, bitch
We evolved with the times

This TV queen, she hit the scene
Divorcing Sonny and getting good rocker beat
(Good, good, good rocker beat)
And now I'm with Geffen, when he was young
I even let Gene Simmons slip me the tongue
(Single lady, danced all night)
And burned the candle at both ends
(The way of love is a twisted trip)
But I'd do it again…
No regrets, damnit!

TV's gone, moving on
There's just one thing that's left for me to do
(Disco Cher!)
Ride the trend, to the end
Throw on disco duds and boogie shoes
(Disco Cher!)
Make some hits, flash my tits!
God, I gotta stop wearing all this cheap crap
(Disco Cher!)
Ride this wave (ride this wave) to my grave (to my grave)
This disco craze will last forever
Gotta do whatever it takes
Even wear roller skates
This era was a bumpy section
Seems like I might need a new direction…
I didn't know what to do next, so I called Sonny on the set of Fantasy Island. He told me to believe in myself, go into acting, and snap out of it! Cue the track

Your career hits the skids and you're busy with kids
(Snap out of it!)
When Altman offers you a scene in Come Back Jimmy Dean
(Snap out of it!) Finally!
More roles come if you ask like the break with Mormon Mass
(Snap out of it!)
Just snap out of it
(Snap out of it!)
You know what I wanna do?
Play a witch in Eastwick
I don't need a damn broomstick!
(Snap out of it!)
I screwed up all those words
Then get struck by the moon
Slap Nic Cage, make him swoon
Snap out of it, bitches!
I won an Oscar, damnit!
Okay, now what?

Got tired of starring in the same old movie
So I stripped with sailors on the MTV (MTV)
They wouldn't stop with the tabloid headlines
No one had ever seen an ass like mine
But I was only getting started
In new adventures yet uncharted
I got in amazing shape and sold a fitness tape!
(Don't turn your back on Cher)
Don't turn your back, baby
Hoo!
'Til my bank balance is longer than my hair
Don't turn your back on Cher
(Don't turn your back on Cher)
Got tattoos everywhere
(Got tattoos everywhere)
And thanks to my hustle
I'm a billionaire, hoo!

In breaking news, Sonny Bono has passed away unexpectedly
 With Sonny gone, I didn't have anyone around to believe in me. So I needed to believe in myself, ho!

How am I supposed to cope?
(She can't cope)
I Cher am gonna miss that dope
(Bye-bye, Sonny)
But since he's not around
I need a brand new sound!
Vocoder, something I can believe
The answer is technology
Vocoder, a new trick up my sleeve
Turn into a robot from outer space!
And I know the gays will buy this
And I know Britney will try this
Now my legacy's secure
Time to do another Cher-well Tour
I invented reinvention, bitches

When our world is destroyed and the end of time approaches
Two things will be left... Cher and cockroaches!
Cher and roaches, cockroaches and Cher
When all else is gone, we'll still be there
Cher and roaches, cockroaches and Cher
Get used to us, we ain't going nowhere
Wagon Wheel Watusi!
(Unintelligible)
Go talk to my agent!