I’m still here. But now the black sheep is empowered. I have to tell it like it is, call it how I see it. I both am and not the black sheep. Figure it out.
Here’s how this is gonna work. The black sheep is our protagonist, and we’ll follow him around, I suppose. But the poems. They’re written based on sound. They’ll either advance the story, describe a character, or define an element. Goodbye


The black sheep has always been, he just went without knowledge of self.
Fear runs many. Fear pushes some to run. And fear is what some are.
The black sheep is not fear. He lives in it. But he clashes. That is what I am. Always fighting, not for dear life, life being livable. Do you feel the black sheep? I suppose that’s premature for a response, but you need to get this. The black sheep is an outsider, and has known that. The thing about that is, youthful, there are few others. So few, an inextinguishable fear could manifest. Thinking through the screen. One equals zero.
“All I See Are Robots”
"Where have all the people gone? All I see are robots?"
He can't blot, that wouldn't be an interesting plot
That thought can never be undone
There's just a line in the sands of mind to separate the scum
The Truman Show nearly washed it all away
So concern of control still walks with him today
The trail is strengthened by breadcrumbs to appease him
Meant to seize him, all they did was tease him
The white hart departs, he must create his own art
His best friends are pencils, papers, and erasers
Manufactured by machines, his demons never leave
Even C-3PO linked to the droid control ship
Being inside the gates won't make the patrol skip
Reality and clones are truly even
No matter how relieving they still could be deceiving
The night is darkest just before the dawn
But solar power's long gone

He spies from behind suddenly robotic eyes
As the Pinocchio dreamer's heart slowly turns to ice
His skin to tin and his soul to control
He's the bird in the sky, a clone in disguise
A mockingbird killer and innocence' demise
His veins run lead with every proverb said
The box of an instrumental telling not to peddle
Money can't buy love but honor thy donor
Only starving Africans have the right to be sad
Look at all your movies, kid, you should be glad
You're not in Chiraq where my force makes little copper droners
No more New Hope, hand over the remote controller
*CLICK*
The Syrian sands block them all out
With such intent to censor and crush his thought dispenser
He must be Mewtwo delivering a clout


An associate of mine once said to me, “what do you want? Acknowledgement, maybe. But not pity.” The black sheep is not weak. His strength draws its own kryptonite. The black sheep is an idea, attracting the likeness. Few face the same.
Enter the transitional period. The black sheep was down often, so, thinking he a normal sheep, sought a simple answer. But the riddle likens itself to the afterlife at such an age. I aged so fast. There was no answer.
The only thing the black sheep could make sense of was politics, because anti-social was his mark. The only fixing there could be was economic. Later, he will realize his middle-class life is still not perfect, turning a new leaf in his journey. But even if he no longer breathes this, the past forms the now. Maybe not a present.
He didn’t know what he was looking for. But he was looking, a beginning. It’s why we’re here.
"Solutions"
Problems identified
The only solution that they could find
Didn't open my mind
Rather kills what's inside
Drown in it or blaze it
I frown at it, let's face it
That's so shallow, no elixir for thought
Like those knowledge bombs were duds and for naught
Just an escape, but more like they flee
Running away can't make the chattel be free
Go ahead and light one up if you're down in the dumps
But that's not enlightenment
And can't render the trident bent
A paper shield won't make the sword yield
Oh shoot, I'm just following suit
There's some spades for the clubs
Time for diamonds from hearts
No more wasting in pubs
Now we'll climb without sparks

To improve the economy get rid of the lottery
A win-win, no more regression
Plus the incomes of the people will finally be progressing
That's just a small step onto the moon
We're doing the walk, we'll look down soon
So I applaud you for showing the door
It might be wrong of me to expect more
I just had to stick my foot in it
So that one day we all may look in it
But we can't be all until the harmless are home
Victimless crimes yielding the freedom to roam
It's not worth forty grand yearly if he's not gonna spear me
Unless you fear we may stop some reign of tyranny
For now, there's nothing to worry about
The means to bring an end haven't been found out
I'm searching for all the world's heals
Buried underneath all these heartless feels


Paint the picture of paranoia: a fiend in the night, bodies hanging in limbo, and the law.
I never contemplated suicide. But those I know well have tried. What glorious failures. Something’s gotta give.
Poe found death of a beautiful women beautiful. Sadness is the strongest emotion I can feel, so I comprehend, but distance. Suicide is a brilliant concept. The black sheep knows this. It is both the trigger and the bullet. It’s done by the scared, but takes such courage. Unveil the great one – nothingness. That is the question. What is on the other side of that door?
And what happens if you send someone there? The black sheep is extreme. This poem scared me. I hope that means something.
The Turn.
“Vibrant Shadows”

People fear the unknown, but fall victim to the unseen
Vibrant shadows make realities of the undreamed
The big fish eat the little fish and they keep on swimming
But the boy in the corner wonders if this life's worth living
A stronger pain than betrayal is no interest at all
He becomes the dagger in the dark to fill his empty halls
He used to wander, distressed by echoed calls
Now they house secrets acting as his beacons
Can't be a purposeless soul, he adopts a black hole role
A shadow, defined by its confines
There's no boy in the corner, nobody can see him
He's an idea that was never thought of
And that's how skeletons get caught up
Some hold empathy for those trapped in the closet
But there's no sympathy for the shadow as they don't even exist
He liberates the enclosed for bliss, into the world, he deposits

The seen is what the people fear the most
The blatant clarity of satan's dirty compost
Sought out by the sharks that devour you up
The child still walks knowing that he's getting buttered up
Angelic demons seen through the eyes of him
Purely corrupt sitting on thrones, doing deeds so grim
That boy he cleanses his own palette
Knowing that the world rubbed him to callus
Malice of the alcohol plus the pain
Equal the man that restart the cycle again
To birth a similar creature with motives to gain
From the enviroment, of many decrepit cranes
Straying from the original plane
The turbulence got the better of them
Wings to fly became another means to die
They become another vibrant shadow in the light that dim

Life became worse than his most tenacious nightmare
He throws his heart out, to be fair, should've been pre-emptive care
He couldn't vanish under a bully's stare
But in the spotlight he must seem right
Wrong with good intentions, telling the truth without justice
Better evil with good intentions to stop the levee bustage
His towering came crashing down, sealing two fates
Here's a chance to be like his idol
Soon to become his rival, he needs a new escape
He closes the door and becomes a skeleton
All of the lights searching for the vanished
Now he's just a vibrant shadow that's been banished
Joining his brethren
The boy from the corner repents becoming the coroner
Just end it, so deep it may never be reached

He seek out the right but the wrong magnetized
The choices he decide supposedly sanitized
When sun up the boy donates his money trees
The vibrant shadows know the truth behind
His palms open to receive presidents buried
Never the humble aftertaste of the good
Always the power of putting the mass lower on the caste
The titanic decending, he the captain not on it
His bretheren getting jumped, he the brother that ran from it
Sought out the elements of living
Become atomic to others when indulging
The man see he the soul that hands agitated
To the wrong role the man is dedicated
With a heart so cold, the land barren wasted


Are you watching closely?
Who am I doing this for? For me, in the long run, but for my people. One day the black sheep will come into his kingdom. The black sheep is of the herd, but no blind follower.
But that means diminished faith and confidence. The black sheep must battle his own doubts or perish. But this one didn’t do it on his own.
Rarely does another’s path intersect his for long, but this star burned bright. One cannot see one’s self to the fullest degree. By the time he was done figuring it out, the white hart was already gone.
“Sheep”
A black sheep remarks, "not all sheep are black"
His old wool was a testament to that
Plus those who still sport a coat
Of bright fleece without a darker tone
The dictionary said black is a dread
Perhaps it was written so sheep would be misled
There's snowy lambs believing they're the shepherds
So many misconceptions, both a gift and a curse
When he found the sheers, a new coat burst
A lion disguised as lamb with a knowledge thirst
How does the world work if the lions are part of the herd?
With the ewe-ful so cruel, why try to fit in?
Malcolm X didn't and now he's glazed over in school
He fought sheers with sheers so garnered no tears
But the fear of him helped King acquire a trim
Both were gunned down so he sticks to the shadows
Until the population grows and ligers overthrown

On the prowl while sitting still
Developing a growl while remaining trill
Skip the salon, he's balling in the barber shop
The color blind painting bright white, reflecting all light
But even the darkest of grays are purer than when the snow drops
And that's an honest statement
There's a Two-Face inside every Harvey Dent
Just another way that the sheep is black
He exposes his core to be immune from attacks
The mutation spreads, suited up with ebony
Praying that the pie in the sky tastes heavenly
They march to the darkest house of pulled strings
The crowned lamb marks the start to the ligers
No need for fear, they're the lions, bears, and tigers
Freedom comes at the cost of knowledge, the most dangerous of things

The black sheep envisions finding a liger in his mind
What an idea, but perhaps that's their kind
What if they don't exist? He tells himself they must
And who's to say being made-up makes something less real?
The black sheep can't find a meal, the hunt is a bust
He hates thoughts, counting sheep to not feel, but it's lust
White and fluffy, he couldn't be taught and now his page's dusty
A yearning to replace learning with an education
He's ignoring his values and taking medication
Struck by lightning, but that led his ark asunder
Flooded with horrid uselessness, he no longer wonders
He's terror-stricken by the thunder
Wait, he can see the light, a white hart
He can live again without being in the scary dark
Now he sees why no one has found the ligers
An outcast on his own could never see the world brighter


Gnaw on that, because the black sheep has spent nearly 2 years mulling over the white hart. The white hart is the turn of the trick, the 2nd act.
It’s always been hard to describe their significance. That’s why they’re a reoccurring character, also because I want you to feel their constant presence as I do, despite only infrequent interaction.
But why the great need? You’ve experienced paranoia, great alienation. Something the white hart has relieved.
One issue with the thought process is a quest for the truth. That means an illness against the maize, the cheddar, the pine. Sentiments of a divine plan never appealed, largely an attribute of mass murder globally.
I waited to introduce the religion card, but it seems the most supreme. That’s what religion is – supremacy. The blade shall be twisted slowly.
The black sheep always believed he must take his fate into his owns hands. That meant a re-evaluation of his self-worth system, previously using a complimentary currency. His main goal affixed has since been accomplished, to save someone’s life from a non-physical threat. But shrinking the scale of one’s aim cannot be breezy, especially down a hart. The black sheep had to be heard.
“Man of a Moon”
I'd rather be fifty with no events than 20 full of regrets
A sheep doesn't lose sleep over the opinion of the lions
Those cheesy Cheetos are scared of not crying
They are society even if they claim to fight the Man
Not many people of this planet understand
Vibing in the darkness at eleven in fright
Is a greater devotion than roaring in the light
Why is vagueness in such a high demand?
Perhaps I should remember a lesson from the Men In Black
If only I could, but the blind have left me neuralized
Either be tranquilized in the face of lies or be neutralized
The man on the moon or the man of a moon
I'm a resident of Triton while others revolve around loons
How do you judge a man who lives only in thought?
Words are wind that can fill a lagoon and whose drainage can be bought


What is life? Some suggest it is absurd. Many try to craft parallels with everyday happenings, namely adventures. The raw implore life is like a dice game. See, some call life a game, but in the case of a dice game, the game is a matter of death or life. It’s another one of those neat little things. It epitomizes the ghetto, but provides the unfixed American Dream via opportunity. But is that life? Perhaps I wish it was. That would be simply exhilarating. Eureka, there be a key word – simply.
But at the end of the day, more power to us means greater means for what we really want, right?
“King Me At The End”

Life is like a dice game
One move and comrades go down in flames
But that's just 16 squares on the checkers board
It's always queen takes rook, but the hand is lord
A white palmed power ruling over the twin towers
Rolling the glaring snake eye to claim G5
Light is the head of he who owns the crown
The dragon of Princess King who helplessly cowers
Dashing plastic pawns are bound to get devoured
Double-jumped, it's rep-less taxation
As if they're in the capital of the nation
Thinned by man's own creation, our own lives lost
Pawns are rolling stones that gather no moss
Caught in the en passant and they're getting tossed
A lucky one shouts, "king me at the end!"
They're playing a game they don't even comprehend

Death makes his moves right, so that you'll have nothing left
The checkmate arrives whether or not you think you have a flight
His strategy impenetrable like the 300 made men phalanx
He sends out the pawns to depatch of the assailants
White crossing over to the black side by the second
The horsemen ready to claim some new victims
The bishops cutting across the ground to take over his kingdom
Rain over the horizon cannonballs to his rooks
Destroy destroy destroy, piles of rubble and soot
"we must protect the king and queen" shouted before soldiers took
A powerful crook, Judgement day has approached
Run from the inevitable or die by the unstoppable
Topple your king and give up while you can
Cause no one gets out alive since the beginning of man

It's the dark ages, turn the pages with only kings, queens, and rookies
Bishops manipulating pawns with intricate levers and pulleys
We the knights of the night and this is my singular sedition
Do your simple addition
That's the erudition that we be spitting with skeptical suspicion
This Anglo-Saxon poetry got you in stupefaction
Taxation without representation, recoil reaction
Red resin of the dragon's blood, the emblem of a kingdom
Wake up before you become a victim of a malignant wisdom dictum
Look inside you'll find a Gunpowder Guy Fawkes
We can make a hassle to the castle yelling taunts with tomahawks
Apothecary and alchemist looking for a solution to willful blindness
And if they're looking for an author, tell them it was LK who signed this
There's a grave of fireflies but no end in emanation
Bodies spell a V for the Vendetta that I hold against a nation


Perhaps you see a rift. Maybe you glanced the author’s name, quite a juxtaposition. The duality is one as one equals zero.
Is this really a story? And who is currently speaking with you?
It’s important to have principles. They make a man who he is. But I like to reapply them, in ways unpredicted. For I am a ghost, entrapped behind bar, moniker, and allegory.
This poetry might become music, if that adds to your appreciation. That’s all technicality is good for once you’ve erased any doubt of your ability.
I may never know the words’ true deliverer.
“Inky the Ghost”

Dwelling at the level of an abyss
Hoping that ghosts don't fade into the pit
Pleading that he's a shade too real to touch
Only the moonstruck feel the chill of a revenant's brush
PacMan's the only one filled with rush
Eating all of Inky's lunch
Seeing blinking red rugs, off to hyperspace
The specter in a bucket waging war on stars
In this rat race the talkers lead the chase
He's trapped behind bars
When the ghost isn't blue, the game's a disgrace
Untouched, their lack of faith disturbs him
Producers never give a shot to the craftsman of a dirge and
The ship slows down, his presence can't be discerned then
Does he even exist? Only in spirit
His pulse needs a whisperer to hear it

Bear traps encamped in a stakeout outside the studio booth
Those programmers say it’s not my duty, proof
I’m a riddled horcrux for more bucks, how can I sell a soul that ain’t mine?
Rhythm plagiarizing poetry and fooling dimes
There seems to be a glitch, no control on the joystick
Trying to find the plug, Bonnie by Clyde got mugged
All these accusations are words put in my mouth
All I do is consume, am I a virus? Title bout
Throttle doubts over the name of the game
Inky’s the ghost but I’m the one to degrade
Overconsumption, inevitable, faded
Thus stated, expendable, one point, I made it
Crossroads, haunts closing in, no Gameboy, I can’t hop
We’re all losers in the code’s pen, DROPPED


Who is the black sheep? I can only answer if he is not I. Not a gump. Never lose your grip on the here and now, but never reject the abstract. The true black sheep straddles. If he didn’t, he wouldn’t really be an outsider, now, would he?
The black sheep, born, raised, metro Detroit. Not a product of the streets, but his environment certainly seeped in. The battle for authenticity wages to this day. The image of an inner-city is jarring and raw. The suburb is delicate. We are puzzles, and the black sheep assembles itself from both sources.
The lamb is of lion.
“Twin Cities”
1.8 million souls used to live here. Now it's a ghosts' town

From the shadow of a fallen titan
Slipping to the pits, he saw the branches ripen
All that power serving 28 years
Suburban’s scoured, going 0 and 16
Model-T force in decline so traffic veers
For fear of the first and fifteenths
Kids going on with 0 dollars and zip cents
Schools closed off so cowards can flip tense
All I see is Scheme Nation
Step out the door without lacin', everyday occasion
No need to know, just hop the fence
Any wonder why these bars are so dense?
Pressure's on until the year ends
Ever fear the rain due to common sense?
Or a never-ending lend for self-defense?
A tale of two cities who both resent
Detroit, the grittiest truth
The other half abstract, not aloof
Gotta love the city for what it meant

Welcome to the city, founded 1967
Either go to heaven or indulge in bread unleavened
Justified by the cries hears, “Detroit vs. Errybody”
But it’s really errybody vs. everybody when
Friends are waving “aye, aye”, waving the II
While he’s holding up three “I”s, needing a third eye
Else joining the society above the sky, and
The city’s branching out banana clips so trees palm these
Knock on wood, brothers told, “take the fruits of ashen seeds, you should”
That’s what the Spirit of Detroit stands for
Contemplating if he’ll find Jiminy Cricket beside Jimmy Hoffa
Hard to tell within the gates of Pandora
It was written in crayon whether he may be a great man
Transparent as a jellyfish or crisp as a chameleon
The former guards the roads from observers of the show
Thinking they know what it’s like to know life flickers
The latter raises snickers, money is power
Knowledge is power? True power’s ruling from the Guardian Tower
Political slander, it’s the hour for the ballot to bite the bullet
Insiders looking out pull it with no handle on the hammer