Who understands Kanye, also understands NietzscheGenius.com is a page for hobby-scribers. First they exclusively explained rap lyrics, now they comment on everything. A fascinating thicket of knowledge and nonsense.
by Felix Johannes EnzianWhen Genius.com was founded six years ago, it was meant only as a vanity project. However, the New York-based company operates as an ambitious business, and is funded by the well-known investment firm Andreessen Horowitz. Notably, the startup has released a new software that enables Genius' long-term desire to achieve annotation of all the internet's content with  interpretational jurisdiction (?). The vision is enormous, it is technically complicated, and it is questionable if it can even be realised.
The principle "Annotate the World" already works very nice. For practical illustration, we must consider egomania and drug crime in this place. These are major tropes in rap lyrics and therefore fall within the core competency of the site, originally known as Rap Exegesis, then later as Rap Genius. Users transcribe lyrics of famous hip-hop songs and explain it line by line to decode slang, puns and shared cultural references.
A popular song by the American rapper IloveMakonnen is called "I Don't Sell Molly No More". The hook is: "I got the gas and the coke / I don't sell molly no more / I keep the white and the green / And it gotta be a pint if you looking for the lean."
When clicking on this line, an English explanation by the Genius contributors pops up. You can translate as follows:
"Makonnen has “gas”, which is slang for Sour Diesel weed. He also has cocaine, and he will only sell lean if you buy it in the pint, which is 16 oz. He may not sell molly anymore, but he is definitely a reliable source for everything else "The commentator writes more precisely not "a reliable source", but "the plug". Some explanations on Genius needs a slang decryption of their own!
Other users can mark annotations with "thumbs up" or "thumbs down", and provide suggestions for improvements. A useful addition would be an explanation of what exactly Molly and Lean are: MDMA and narcotic cough syrup. The annotators can also follow each other and share videos and pictures. Lush Marijuana plants or colourful cough syrup drinks are popular illustrations.
Old Testament depths
In principle, Genius merges the footnotes on philological text-edition with the architecture and the serene communication style of social media. The content is not always profane, as one might think. When it comes to the rhymes of superstar Kanye West, Genius takes a deep look through the prism (?) of the Old Testament. On West's song "I Am A God", Genius derides the "Judeo-Christian dichotomy between God and man" as meaningless. In order to justify the rapper's self-deification, a formulation is cited from Psalm 82: "I have said, Ye are all gods." Ye is Kanye's nickname. Meanwhile, the self-praise "the only rapper compared to Michael" serves as an affirmation. Michael "refers not only to Mike Tyson and Michael Jackson", but also to the Hebrew name meaning "who is like God".
Some notes are from the famous music producer Rick Rubin personally, including on "I Am A God". An awesome and great review of West's masterpiece Yeezus, written by Lou Reed shortly before his death, is richly and thoroughly annotated. Such treasures make Genius a major source of information. Their cultural added value compared to pop-lyrics homepages without annotations is fantastic. The variations in quality of Genius exegeses are actually an added bonus, providing great entertainment value. Some commentators devote themselves with amazing meticulousness to annotations of banal passages, others throw themselves naively to complicated questions like the concept of "decadence" by Nietzsche. Both are deeply moving to read.
- Second Page -
Motivated by the popularity (the site allegedly receives 30 million visits a month), the interpreters now basically explain everything: literature, philosophy, political speeches, or pharmaceutical package inserts. Across the extended range, the competence is sometimes very poor. The text entry for Ride of the Valkyries, attributed to Richard Wagner, contains verses that come from a song of the same name by an Italian heavy metal group. Shame on you, swarm intelligence!
Ilan Zechory and Tom Lehman are aware of such errors on the site. "A bad annotation is better than none, because it encourages other users to fix it" is their view. The two founders and CEOs of Genius are the perfect incarnation of the young, economically successful creative people, for whom the name "Yuccie" was recently invented . Both studied at Yale. Zechory took religious studies and worked at Google. Lehman studied mathematics and can program. They compare their joint creation with the Jewish Talmud, which expounds the legal texts of the Torah.
Although Genius.com has not yet generated revenue, Lehman and Zechory have already received more than $55million in investment capital. In spring, the famous music critic Sasha Frere-Jones moved from the magazine The New Yorker to the startup, which now has 30 employees. His mission is to win more prominent musicians as commentators for Genius. Eminem and Marilyn Manson are already members. Third founder Mahbod Moghadam was thrown out by Lehman and Zechory after he added tasteless comments to the manifesto of a person who ran amok. Genius' rising business ambition demands a serious approach.
Whether Genius actually can spread throughout the Internet, however, depends on complex factors. Annotations can now be applied to any website, albeit via a somewhat cumbersome procedure. However, only those who use the software, currently in Beta, can read and write annotations on the whole internet. Only when other big media companies relinquish the authority to make their own content voluntarily and installing the new interface directly into their pages, will Genius work really well for everyone. For that to happen, Genius would have to be extremely popular and equally powerful.