I said yo
I said I smack you with a tree no root attached
You've been riding where? It's a boot attached
Nigga I robbed you for your P's and
Watch you beg for peace that's the only way you get your budda back
You get 'em all aboard well I'm Chris with Snoop I give 'em all the boards
So what's your War Report before the war report nigga?
N.O. but you not official
I should let Hoffa hit you before you teleport into a police station and tell the cops I'm with 'em nigga
He ain't no rider, I smell a cop on him
If I get the drop on him I let them drop on 'em
Once these Bad Boys split his head y'all gon' be mad Big/Bigg is dead I went Lox on him
Dope money, you don't remind me of 'Kiss your coke funny
So stop before I leave you with a knot
As big as $5,000 in all twenties nigga
Baller alert
You was better off asking Organik how to alter his shirt
3X sweater, gun barking at a crowd like when E. Ness fed up
All in the church nigga
I pray for you, don't let death catch ya
Gun, poking out the shirt like a nipple on T-Rex sweater
Then you get murdered like Smack booked Mook to rap battle for his next set up
Who's selling tickets nigga?
I catch you in the tele tricking
I'll wait til your wife come home and give her that T-Boz in Belly visit
Nigga you can't run to Africa
So wherever you run I'm after ya
I'll put a ghost to your name like I signed you to my label and I'm Maybaching ya
Ride out
If Head feels something itchy it ain't dry scalp
I got an ill Mac, Bigg K, shit could turn Los Globos any time now nigga
They'll be looking for the body and a random Lush nigga gon' say "And there it is"
 cause you sleeping in Amy Winehouse nigga
Get your men for us, I keep a big Taurus
And got an MM P15 that been waiting to take a shot like a bench warmer nigga
I hit your army up
Then let Pumpkinhead tell you how Ice could've been Team Homi once
Farrakhan can't stop this nigga
In thee end (Indian) they gon' wish Gandhi come nigga
You can't fuck with me and you know he right
I'm the only Ice, I don't only fight
Nigga I kill you with the cord attached to your karaoke mic
Rap now
Before you get back on Smack you'll get smacked down
Beat up too, found by a clean up crew, somewhere in the back lounge nigga
I stay with it, you play with it
You nigga fear a (Phara) Funeral unless Queen Of The Ring give it nigga
M-16 got a butt big as Ms. Hustle, I won't even shoot you with it
Just SMACK, and your head will have a gap as big as Kristi Yamaguchi standing nigga
This how the story go
Your bitch will suck a random dick like glory hole
I get you both smoked for short money, Tori Doe nigga
Who gon' stop Ice?
I done stopped life in front of stop lights
So if I miss I'm still fit to catch the murder on another ave
So if I see three I'm still QBing the hit to get the drop right
Talk to me right or I smack blood out you
I better get a hog out you
If I don't, I'ma go in your mouth and pull that lil' bit of thug out you, you bitch ass nigga
If I bump K and he front, I'ma catch a case like Bump J
Y'all gon' see murder (C-Murder) from a Master P you can tell your Lil' Romeo one day
The streets see for everybody that's why I hide from every body
So see me when you see me cause I might be the last nigga you saw before you see EVERYBODY!
Nigga, I do gully shit, muddy shit
Like, they'll only see your stomach floating
But everything fallout out your back underwater got you looking like a jellyfish nigga
I'm Rich Porter, I keep a gun cause only a nigga close like Po can hit me
I throw him 50 plus protect him by throwing 50 so I keep it 100 with no one with me nigga
Ice!
Your bitch will love me and I'll love her back
Fuck me and I'ma fuck her back
Cause you reach out arms, I make her hug a strap nigga
Different nigga, yeah we pouring out for the same type of dead homies but this is different liquor
Cheer up or get a haircut from a different clipper nigga
I work harder
And got a whole different team of ballers I Coach Carter
Nigga only 2 Chainz could tell you how Ludacris shit be when you go solo and come harder nigga
So place a table bet
I get your whole table wet
They'll have DNA by every other number like when he played Roulette nigga
You niggas say "bars" in a reference or you talking slickly
My Wolf know just by the way I say "bars" I got that 40 with me nigga
Ice!

I said yo Ice
You a 50 year old low life, no stripes
You and your Wolf can get stuck together like cold rice
Bow knife, old head come get your dome sliced
I roll up with it in my lap like the phone lights
So nice, you trash for the low price
No bars, they blinded by your flash, that's a strobe light
I'm throwing bombs, you holding on, let it go Ice
Your ship sailed, you're stinking up this card with that Old Spice
You smell me?
 I don't rock with that
But if you 50 and still broke you got to rap
I put the blades on ice like a hockey match
Two rifles, I'm live with a pair of scopes (Periscope) I don't got the app
Get clapped, it'll be five goons where Ice chilling
After I green light the room like night vision
No water, that's a puddle of blood, Ice dripping
It got real, then they saw me take a chunk out the top, Ice fishing
Listen, I'm bringing three rounds, slip and it's a beat down
I'm strapped like the Navy, lama by the kidney
Get it jumping in Beantown
I push the Pinto, slump with the seat down
Now I'm dabbing in the dump like I'm Dee Brown
Clown, no friends, it's the fam' only
Full clip, I peel a can like anchovies
Your 16 from the 50, damn homie
That shit'll clean Ice up like a zamboni
I said I'm Tony, Montana with a sledgehammer
For your stash next door, Ned Flanders
The clip falling off the hip, wet Pampers
A big one hit your chest Fred Sanford
Who fronting? You don't like it than do something
Fuck rap, I run through dust I'm dune bugging
Plugged, I know some rastamans, tools dumping
I had them dreads slide on I.C.E: 
Cool Runnings
Gun in the zipper medic, throw one in your lid and wet it
Showtime oven, they'll set it and then forget it
You flexing, I'ma stretch it I ain't real sympathetic
Fire an HK like 
Hell's Kitchen
 credits
Dead it, I'ma fuck him up, squeeze him like a rubber duck
This'll have you scared to leave your crib like the Bubble Guts
This shit'll knock a horse down, word to Buttercup
Get set up, slap Ice with a stick, that's a Knuckle Puck
What it's about? Don't make me come to your house
Kick a dead body under the couch
The 40 kicking like a kangaroo tucked in the pouch
While he chilling, if I.C.E grilling, I put a slug in his mouth
Eat dick, top it off with a plate full of AIDS
Cut it out or get folded; paper mache
Just keep your fucking mouth shut like we playing charades
Harlem Hospital giving beds out but you going straight to the grave!

I'll smack the shit out you K, on everything
Show up to where you and yours is settling things
And when the preacher say, "Do anybody disagree?"
I say, "Me."
Then come up there and rob you and that bitch for y'all wedding rings
Nigga do it later!
Watching your block get shot up by my young niggas is some of the shit I do with paper nigga
Rolling blunts, picking niggas up, ordering food
Telling killers what's the latest on the news
Is the only thing you do with gangstas nigga
Yeah, he's slick with the talk but he ain't there for the walk he frauding
Drill rapping but look like the son of Phil Jackson, he Jordan
Don't get your pops killed
Cause We Are The Streets, way before The Lox deal
Nigga I leave your cheek exposed
Remove everything from out your house, that street valuable but you could keep your clothes
Then terrorize him, he'll be hiding in the Carolinas for about a week or two
Then just pop up on a beach somewhere like a dead whale in about a week or two
Nigga we bout that yeah
I don't mind tripping with bodies so if you tripping you bodied
Forgot about after a few sips of Bacardi I'm on a bitch in the party nigga
Fraud listen
I done hit niggas more times than a prison board system
You think you hard bodied?
Well wait for that autopsy tell them how much shit they did wrong to 'em nigga
You from a state that got common wealth
It's legal for y'all to hold your burners
Still my young nigga will rock you while you buying cigarettes from the store and get away with it like Omar murder
Ave don't fuck with you

He a sucker that's why

Ave don't fuck with you

Ave's a pussy

Ave don't fuck with you...let him get salty
Ave don't fuck with you, your muscle got arthritis where yo' heart find it?
How he this great white and nobody in the shark biting?
 was looking for the nigga but couldn't find him like some tires I was trying to get to match the truck
Young X said he pussy
He know a few niggas in the hood but he don't back it up
I know a bitch that don't even know him and she said she would smack him up
So it's safe to say that that place you stay won't back you up nigga
I been in and out of VA for 16 years nigga I know yo' block
Five houses down got the weed and around the corner they moving Molly and speed
In apartment C just above the go-go spot
Killa Black and Jay be lurking in yo' hood with they hammers that you don't even know they got
So if I send you a picture with two niggas on your porch smoking weed
It ain't Photoshop nigga
You hear me?
So don't let that head upstairs be the reason there ain't no head upstairs
Cause if Head upstairs I'ma make it to where no one else can head up there
So do I want the head up? Yeah!
What's popping K?
I just showed you my stripes from the line, Dr. J
I'm that thing B, they will Bernard King me if I stop today, nigga
You looking for crowd hype
I'm the type to shoot in the crowd hype
Dex Osama, but you can be the next Obama if you get yo' style right nigga
Don't get hit in the hit, I don't got time for mission bloopers
If you miss they shooter, I'ma carry you back like an injured trooper nigga
Man down
Drunk nigga banging on the door cause he think his girl cheating is how that can sound nigga
Cops will find you from drips of blood from your body if I front you drugs and you don't got me
That's back stabbing
I'll come back stabbing like Dolph did Yo Gotti nigga
Yeah, so pick a weapon or stick with the reverend
Cause out here, guns is banging over dirt like Magnificent 7 nigga
I let an old small Hawk jam you, Spud Webb
It'll get rid of ya
Or I'll get up closer and let you feel both .38 special bullets out the Dillinger nigga
How you like that faggot?
I hope they bury you in a black casket
If the don't I'll get it done with two 20/20 baggies and a closed palm fist dap to a crack addict
Nigga, what drug you on?
Weak niggas be trying to thug too strong
Til I show up at the side of they hospital bed like, "Damn...what plug you on?"
Dead that
Don't push the case cause no battle bars is gonna help me beat a Fed rap
If I was looking for pictures and birds to eat off
Then the maggots and worms on top of your head is where they get fed at
ICE

I say you an old ass clown
Lying like you cut kilos
You cheesy and corny; Puff Cheetos and crushed Fritos
I'll wet yo' shit, extra clips, enough B roll
This will ring on ice like Sub Zero in a tuxedo
Bang, I'm a natural it's never a front
That's how I come up in the ring and do whatever I want
Your trap will get sprayed if I'm smelling the skunk
I tell the cops, "He shot himself...and fell in the trunk."
You a chump, he ain't said nothing nice the whole round
Your first record deal? '65 with Motown
Dan Marino gloves, I come to light the fo' pound
Once he see the leather straps I bet Ice'll tone (isotone) down
Catch it? I'm in your building acting vulgar with that fully tuck
While you with wifey Casanova get his cookie cut
I'm masked down, grab the toaster throw the hoodie up
Knock the tapioca out your pudding cup
Slug fest, ear to ear, cut next
This one Tec, I pop dirty like it failed the drug test
Suspects, get bombed on, Funk Flex
The shotgun, try to take that back like drunk texts
Who up next?
I'll right hand your hype man
You catch the left? Ice land in Iceland
You light handed
One of these? Gigantic
When it run into Ice it's going down; Titanic
Your type panic
I pull a Desi out the bag, what set you repping?
I make confetti out the flag
You don't even be in Harlem, he flexing on the ave
You stepped out on the H like a helicopter pad
I'm bad
You ain't big in the big city
If you is next time I'm on biz then get with me
I come to 1-2-5th with one 2-5th and get busy
Feeling froggy he get the snub nose; Miss Piggy
This bitch silly, throw the gun up to Ice cap, dome shot
Shit'll leak like sun on the ice cap
Find out where he trapped, cut in the ice pack
You gon' need bandages for the cut in the Ice pack
I'm like that
I made it through the cold winters
Stretching my last, buying them 2 for 4 dinners
You rap 'bout it, you ain't 'bout to do it though is ya?
I dump Ice on his head like a super bowl winner
I said yo, you can bring your whole hood, I don't find those factors
Roll up, you're street food, gyro wrappers/rappers
I'm back, applying pressure; chiropractors
You couldn't catch a small break with a micro fracture
Time

I can't even front on you K, you in the game
But niggas don't run with you for that reason
We fuck with you 'cause nobody bring you to the courts
You like P. Miller in Shaq's sneakers now
I'm just keeping it 100
Niggas is all in yo' ho ass cause you a ho ass nigga
I don't see no star in yo' eye and neither do Jack Thriller nigga
You short bus, crazy off of Cognac liquor
Well I've been off lately nigga I don't even see the lights that Con Ed' give us
Let's start something nigga
They gon' promote this death like a new card coming
If The Price Is Right I might win a new car from this
Spin the wheel nigga
Cause K with a Vanna...White is a game show
Let's keep it real nigga
I don't keep punks with me, just a pump with me
And I'll let it hit you under the chin like Rick Fox' fight with Doug Christie nigga
Do your homework
And stop being mad that black niggas is fucking white bitches
We been putting New World Order in your old earths
Plan it/planet with me
I done flipped in your hood, every gram was sixty
Kept a 4-5 and wanted 5,500 for every plant of piffy
Let's talk numbers
I catch 16 before Drake made all summer
1,002 when the vials was blue and my start up money got 230,000 views
And made it to where today I got 230,000 too
I'm good with that
I've been flipping battle rap money before y'all knew Suge could rap
I'm good with Smack nigga
Yeah, no rap battles, I don't need a reason to clap at you
I'll never question myself like, "Ice, what you did?"
Knowing my inner Wolf gon' say, "I felt the nigga wasn't that Bigg to be looking back at you."
So let's play fair
Cause grilling me will get you Norbes hit outside your baby daycare
I took uzi's off bustas
Swung Louisville sluggers at those that had base and loaded
So that home run don't mean you safe there nigga
I'll catch K, while he copping eigths and ounces
Walk up on him while he rapping on somebody like he on the stage and crowd lit
Then snap shots at him with a fan like an Asian outfit nigga
Gun Jaz The Rapper height, ruin appetites
Make a big nigga, look like a stick figure in the afterlife
No hangman, I was looking forward to you dropping gems but you got no show
You Rain Man nigga, no validation
Don't feel conceited cause you beat Conceited and got paid by Alki David
That's an old broom gangsta, this today's newpaper
I'm giving your scalp the latest nigga
Read up, I done kicked in doors and blew off toes of niggas who had they feet up
You'll get hit with chairs and boos way before you rub that Apollo tree stump nigga
Oh I'm Harlem for real
If I'm armed I'ma kill
You'll get hit with a round from a Hollow for real
Battle that
I tell Avocado to give me the footage and make you pay me $30,000 to get your battle back
Cause you soft like that
Chicken, I'm on the other side of the road
You know not to cross like that nigga
So stop acting wild, in the streets I raised 13 bastard childs
One of my young niggas got shot up about 8 times
His only concern was his Black & Mild
Nigga you not like us
Yeah, I done poured 190 on the head of niggas who thought they grimy and had the heart like us
I rip apart your plots
Enemies, tried standing on the front line but took too long to shoot like Bill Cartwright's shot
So fuck a third hand
Poppi know to put respect on every brick, like Birdman nigga
But anything is possible
Picture me going to the pack like, "Yo. K fronted on me
Him and his cousin pointed a can at me."
I'ma need y'all to film black history, start with his grand daddy
I got him and his child, be patient
I'm waiting on my gun like Furious Styles
Where Trey went?
I got more blood on this plastic than Ricky body
50 prolly
But every time it's yo' turn to dance, you throw a hippy party nigga
What's up with that?
I thought you was up from crack
Found out the truth was, niggas robbed you and you just upped your crack nigga
You keep it tucked under the coat and the niggas know to watch
Nigga please,  released Fox and B-Magic footage
Cause you was in the footage screaming "Here come the cops!" nigga
"The cops is coming, the cops is coming."
Y'all niggas need to stop man, y'all gon' go to jail
"The cops is coming, the cops is coming."
Fuck it, Organik coming
Am I lying, holmes?
Yeah, you know not to say something
Cause I saw the shit three times from inside yo' phone
Bitch ass nigga
Ice

Ice!
Ice!
Ice!
Ayo, get a load of me, ain't nobody as old as me, I'm as old as everything
O dot L dot D is in the motherfucking building
I said I wanna fuck your girl...and I will not fail
I'm trying to put it all in her box...you got mail
Ice!
She let me fuck her in the ass for drinks; cocktail
But you the type to buy son ass...that's oxtail
Ice!
Ice!
Ice!
Is this actually happening?
Is that the style that 'pose to make a battle be challenging?
You not wavy you'se a washed up faggot that's babbling
And his cheap ass Wolf ring from Magic The Gathering
You a goofy
This ain't G shit
It ain't jewelry, it's a trinket
We making plays, flee flickers on each trips
While you in the jets, cheap liquor and stink sticks
Weak bitch, what you 'bout to show me with no bread?
You got it? I get it
OT with dope 
Fuck what you did in the 90's or '03 that's so dead
These fans can't tell the difference between an O.G. and an old head
But not me
I see it 'fore it start to happen
You used to play ball, failed athlete that started rapping
When you started hooping that's when I started trapping
The bricks that we broke down thick; Paul Patton
What's happening?
Your old tricks faggot, can it
I put a stop to your flow; traffic jam it
You was 30 when Biggie dropped 10 Crack Commandments
Running 'round like he's New York City's Captain Planet
Ice!
Ice
Ice
{Bigg K throws a Head Ice ring he was wearing into the crowd}
Grow up, I literally bought that off Ebay for four bucks
You from the Lionz Den, so what? You know Lux
It's 2016 and I give no fucks
Talk is cheap, I get down, stalk and creep
Lay in the bushes, hit you from across the street
Matter of fact, scratch that, I toss the heat
And punch the life out of Wolf like Altered Beast
Everything you do and how you do it, mad lame
If you don't like name flips you shouldn't have a stupid ass name
It's your fault, it's your decision, you bugging
Head Ice, The Wolf, you picked two of 'em
Move something, I don't budge and don't bend
I throw 10, family trees get broke limbs
You outdated so rusty, won't win
I got the Tommy in the desert, this No Country For Old Men
I goes in
Tip toe, barefoot, got a clip full of silver bullets you 'bout to wear Wolf/werewolf
I take a bayonet, slice ya jaw
Get cut, I don't fuck with Ice at all
Drug talk, you get it if you 'possed to know
Food for thought I'm eating with a broken bowl
You just another dead body, know your role
And now I got a wolf head for that totem pole